1Oct14
This is an attempt to document my method for LRE window selection.

Profile Initialization: crude window selection
Generally used for initializing new profiles, this process is multi stage. 

1. Identification of a LRE window based on scanning the profile by examining 5 contiguous cycles  
to calculate LRE parameters for every cycle. Each cycle is then examined using 
a R2 threshold (0.4) chosen imperially to hopefully identify a valid LRE 
window. This also includes a minimum Emax of 40% which was found to greatly reduce 
selection of false windows. 

2. 

Nonlinear Regression Analysis

The primary purpose of conducting nonlinear regression analysis (NR) is to 
correct for baseline drifting, which was found, with  
great dismay, to generate potentially large distortions in Emax determination. 
This drifting was also found to vary, sometimes greatly, from run to run, 
that in turn generated large CV for Emax,e.g. ±1-2%. Note also that such drifting 
was not generated by the MXP machine upon which LRE was developed and tested, so 
thus problem was unexpected.

NR is used to determine baseline drifter from which an optimized working 
Fc dataset is generated by assuming baseline drift is linear; 
that is, each cycle Fc reading is adjusted for the drift by adding 
cycle# X baseline drift. Note that the NR-derived Fb is also used for background 
subtraction, but actually was never to be greatly different from the average Fc 
previously used to to estimate fluorescence background (Fb). 

Thus, although NR does generate values for all LRE parameters (Emax, Fmax, Fo, 
Fb, and delta E) only Fb and baseline drift are actually used. Following the 
generation of an optimized Fc dataset, the LRE parameters are recalculated and 
NR repeated using the new LRE parameters. Note that this does not involve any 
adjustment to the LRE window (see below). This process is then repeated 3X and 
an average Fb and baseline slope calculated, which are then to generate a final 
optimized working Fc dataset. The LRE parameters are then recalculated to complete the 
process.  

One of the most challenging aspects of implementing NR was the necessity of 
excluding distorted cycles from the both the start of the profile and those close 
to the plateau. Indeed this was very similar to effective automation of LRE 
window selection that also requires exclusion of distorted cycles within the 
upper regions of the profile. It was then recognized that LRE window selection 
and NR could be combined, by using the last cycle within the LRE window as the 
upper limit, that is, the last cycle included into NR. Excluding the first three 
cycles was further found to be effective in avoiding distortion often found at
the beginning of a profile. 

It is because of this dependency on LRE window selection that NR is conducted 
without attempting to adjust the LRE window; that is, LRE window selection and 
optimization is conducted separately from NR.  